A: What is the chief end of man?
B: Man's chief end is to glorify God, and to enjoy Him for ever.
A: What rule hath God given to direct us how we may glorify and enjoy Him?
B: The Word of God, which is contained in the Scriptures of the Old and New Testaments, is the only rule to direct us how we may glorify and enjoy Him.
A: What do the Scriptures principally teach?
B: The Scriptures principally teach what man is to believe concerning God, and what duty God requires of man.
A: What is God?
B: God is a Spirit, infinite, eternal, and unchangeable, in his being, wisdom, power, holiness, justice, goodness, and truth.
A: Are there more Gods than one?
B: There is but one only, the living and true God.
A: How many persons are there in the Godhead?
B: There are three persons in the Godhead; the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost; and these three are one God, the same in substance, equal in power and glory.
A: What are the decrees of God?
B: The decrees of God are, his eternal purpose, according to the counsel of his will, whereby, for his own glory, he hath fore-ordained whatsoever comes to pass.
A: How doth God execute his decrees?
B: God executeth his decrees in the works of creation and providence.
A: What is the work of creation?
B: The work of creation is, God's making all things of nothing, by the word of his power, in the space of six days, and all very good.
A: How did God create man?
B: God created man male and female, after his own image, in knowledge, righteousness, and holiness, with dominion over the creatures.
A: What are God's works of providence?
B: God's works of providence are, his most holy, wise, and powerful preserving and governing all his creatures, and all their actions.
A: What special act of providence did God exercise toward man in the estate wherein he was created?
B: When God had created man, he entered into a covenant of life with him, upon condition of perfect obedience; forbidding him to eat of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, upon the pain of death.
A: Did our first parents continue in the estate wherein they were created?
B: Our first parents, being left to the freedom of their own will, fell from the estate wherein they were created, by sinning against God.
A: What is sin?
B: Sin is any want of conformity unto, or transgression of, the law of God.
A: What was the sin whereby our first parents fell from the estate wherein they were created?
B: The sin whereby our first parents fell from the estate wherein they were created, was their eating the forbidden fruit.
