A: Then once more the assertion is repeated that piety is dear to the gods?
B: Certainly.
A: And when you say this, can you wonder at your words not standing firm, but walking away? Will you accuse me of being the Daedalus who makes them walk away, not perceiving that there is another and far greater artist than Daedalus who makes them go round in a circle, and he is yourself; for the argument, as you will perceive, comes round to the same point. Were we not saying that the holy or pious was not the same with that which is loved of the gods? Have you forgotten?
B: I quite remember.
A: And are you not saying that what is loved of the gods is holy; and is not this the same as what is dear to them—do you see?
B: True.
A: Then either we were wrong in our former assertion; or, if we were right then, we are wrong now.
B: One of the two must be true.
A: Then we must begin again and ask, What is piety? That is an enquiry which I shall never be weary of pursuing as far as in me lies; and I entreat you not to scorn me, but to apply your mind to the utmost, and tell me the truth. For, if any man knows, you are he; and therefore I must detain you, like Proteus, until you tell. If you had not certainly known the nature of piety and impiety, I am confident that you would never, on behalf of a serf, have charged your aged father with murder. You would not have run such a risk of doing wrong in the sight of the gods, and you would have had too much respect for the opinions of men. I am sure, therefore, that you know the nature of piety and impiety. Speak out then, and do not hide your knowledge.
B: Another time; for I am in a hurry, and must go now.
A: Alas! and will you leave me in despair? I was hoping that you would instruct me in the nature of piety and impiety; and then I might have cleared myself of Meletus and his indictment. I would have told him that I had been enlightened by him, and had given up rash innovations and speculations, in which I indulged only through ignorance, and that now I am about to lead a better life.
