A: This message to Orestes, to the son of Agamemnon, bear: She, who was slain at Aulis, Iphigenia, sends thee this: She lives, but not to those who then were there.
B: Where is she? From the dead return'd to life?
A: She whom thou seest: but interrupt me not. To Argos, O my brother, ere I die, bear me from this barbaric land, and far remove me from this altar's bloody rites, at which to slay the stranger is my charge.
B: What shall I say? Where are we, Pylades?
A: Or on thy house for vengeance will I call, Orestes. Twice repeated, learn the name.
B: Ye gods!
A: In my cause why invoke the gods?
B: Nothing: proceed: my thoughts were wandering wide: Strange things of thee unask'd I soon shall learn.
A: Tell him the goddess saved me, in exchange a hind presenting, which my father slew a victim, deeming that he plunged his sword deep in my breast: me in this land she placed. Thou hast my charge: and this my letter speaks.
C: O, thou hast bound me with an easy oath: what I have sworn with honest purpose, long defer I not, but thus discharge mine oath. To thee a letter from thy sister, lo, I bear, Orestes; and I give it thee.
B: I do receive it, but forbear to unclose its foldings, greater pleasure first to enjoy than words can give. My sister, O most dear, astonish'd ev'n to disbelief, I throw mine arms around thee with a fond embrace, in transport at the wondrous things I hear.
D: Stranger, thou dost not well with hands profane thus to pollute the priestess of the shrine, grasping her garments hallow'd from the touch.
B: My sister, my dear sister, from one sire, from Agamemnon sprung, turn not away, holding thy brother thus beyond all hope.
A: My brother! Thou my brother! Wilt thou not unsay these words? At Argos far he dwells.
B: Thy brother, O unhappy! is not there.
A: Thee did the Spartan Tyndarus bring forth?
B: And from the son of Pelops' son I sprung.
A: What say'st thou? Canst thou give me proof of this?
B: I can: ask something of my father's house.
A: Nay, it is thine to speak, mine to attend.
B: First let me mention things which I have heard Electra speak: to thee is known the strife which fierce 'twixt Atreus and Thyestes rose.
A: Yes, I have heard it; for the golden ram,—
B: In the rich texture didst thou not inweave it?
A: O thou most dear! Thou windest near my heart.
B: And image in the web the averted sun?
A: In the fine threads that figure did I work.
B: For Aulis did thy mother bathe thy limbs?
A: I know it, to unlucky spousals led.
B: Why to thy mother didst thou send thy locks?
A: Devoted for my body to the tomb.
B: What I myself have seen I now as proofs will mention. In thy father's house, hung high within thy virgin chambers, the old spear of Pelops, which he brandish'd when he slew Oenomaus, and won his beauteous bride, the virgin Hippodamia, Pisa's boast.
A: O thou most dear (for thou art he,) most dear acknowledged, thee, Orestes, do I hold, from Argos, from thy country distant far?
