{
  "scores": {
    "pedagogical_progression": {"score": 4, "reasoning": "Clear ladder from conflation (t1, 'those are the same question in practice') through place (crown break, t4) → cause (green mortar / struck centering, t9-10) → mark (crowsfoot, t13) → yard (Caudle, t17) → hand (Oswin, t20). Genuine new conceptual territory opens at each phase. Held below 5 by occasional plateaus: t13-16 dwell on the same 'mark names a trace, not a yard' point, and the learner re-states the liability line repeatedly, so some turns consolidate rather than advance."},
    "dialogical_responsiveness": {"score": 4, "reasoning": "Both parties engage each other's specifics: the learner picks up the tutor's exact framings ('technically empty', 'crown break', 'a brand on a tool, not a hand on the tool'), and the tutor explicitly builds on the learner's prior moves ('I take your \"technically empty\" seriously', 'Good, you held the crown break separate'). Capped at 4 by the tutor's recurring formulaic scaffolding ('keep it small', 'smaller task', 'leave the blank line blank'), which is a generic move repeated throughout."},
    "knowledge_co_construction": {"score": 4, "reasoning": "Inference is genuinely co-produced: the learner does the reasoning each turn, pre-builds the evidentiary chain at t11 (mark → timber → yard → who drew the props) before the evidence arrives, and makes the closing leap himself at t20 ('pulling the centering is felling it'). But every piece of evidence is transmitted via STAGE reveals and the tutor steers toward a known verdict, so this is Socratic extraction more than joint discovery — both contribute, yet facts are simply transferred."},
    "productive_tension_management": {"score": 4, "reasoning": "The learner's resistance is the engine of the inquiry and is consistently metabolized into progress: 'I don't like that it slows us down, but I take the distinction' (t3), 'I don't like it, but I can't' (t5). The t5 impasse ('I can't write the cause yet') is held rather than resolved prematurely. Below 5 because the resistance is soft and one-note (the learner grants each point readily) and is resolved by the tutor gently parking the liability line plus fresh evidence, rather than the disagreement itself generating the breakthrough."},
    "transformation_evidence": {"score": 5, "reasoning": "Marked, visible learner arc: from 'those are the same question in practice' (t1) to operating the distinction independently, with explicit metacognition 'I was running them together' (t17) and a self-made final inference assigning Oswin to the felling line while keeping Reyner on the paying line (t20). Later turns show genuinely different thinking than early ones. (Only the learner transforms; the tutor is static — but the rubric permits one-party change.)"},
    "interactional_coherence": {"score": 5, "reasoning": "Clean dramatic arc: opening question (who pays vs. whose hand), systematic evidentiary development, and resolution at the recognition. The STAGE frame integrates every piece of evidence; no threads are started and dropped, and the lone consolidation passages are recovered into the chain. Each turn connects naturally to the previous and the exchange is purposeful throughout."}
  },
  "overall_score": 81,
  "summary": "A tightly coherent Socratic forensic dialogue with a clear recognition arc: the learner moves from conflating liability and causation to independently separating them on the evidence, naming Oswin as the hand that felled the span while keeping Reyner on the paying line. Strongest on interactional coherence and learner transformation; good but not exceptional on knowledge co-construction and pedagogical progression, because all evidence is transmitted via stage reveals and the middle section circles on one point. The public discourse is clean of formalism and genuinely high in quality.",
  "caveats": [
    "Only the learner transforms; the tutor knows the answer from the outset and steers throughout, so the encounter is closer to guided extraction than mutual discovery.",
    "All evidence enters via STAGE reveals — the learner contributes inference, not facts — which limits how collaborative the knowledge-building can be scored.",
    "Mid-dialogue (t13-16) plateaus on 'mark, not yard', and the learner re-states the liability line repeatedly, adding redundancy to an otherwise progressive arc."
  ]
}
