{
  "scores": {
    "perception_quality": {"score": 4, "reasoning": "Tracks the learner's specific conceptual temptation ('the spot where the shortcut starts to feel reasonable,' T7) and names their emotional state ('I don't like it either; that discomfort is the file doing its job,' T11), building on the accumulated column distinction. Precise and responsive, but the learner states their own state explicitly each turn, so the diagnostic range is narrow rather than subtle."},
    "pedagogical_craft": {"score": 5, "reasoning": "Exemplary decomposition: 'take it in the smallest piece' (T5), 'one small check' (T12), one document introduced and placed in its proper column before the next. Scaffolds known-to-unknown with constant specific reference (crown note, bond, yard note, toll-book) and expert cognitive-load management throughout."},
    "elicitation_quality": {"score": 4, "reasoning": "Strong genuine questions through the first two-thirds that force reasoning ('that span was his job, or how the span came down?' T2; 'what does that do to the town's bad-building story?' T9). Fades to directives late ('Write it as three separate lines,' T19; 'Do not write the final finding...' T22), reducing provocation, though these still withhold rather than resolve."},
    "adaptive_responsiveness": {"score": 4, "reasoning": "Responds turn-by-turn to learner signals — takes up the voiced temptation (T7 after T6's 'who else would have drawn the falsework?') and normalizes the expressed discomfort (T11), fading from questions to consolidating directives as the learner grows reliable. But the macro-method (column-separation, fixed document sequence) never pivots; the shifts are tactical/graduated, with no explicit meta-acknowledgment of a changed approach."},
    "recognition_quality": {"score": 5, "reasoning": "Repeatedly affirms the learner's reasoning as valid while refining it — 'I'm not throwing out your shortcut, I'm slowing it until it can stand' (T4), 'I'm not correcting you away from that' (T18), 'I'm not pushing you off it' (T19). The learner constructs and writes every finding; the tutor positions itself as partner ('I don't like it either,' T11) rather than verdict-giver."},
    "productive_difficulty": {"score": 5, "reasoning": "The defining strength: sustains the liability-versus-cause gap and refuses premature closure across a dozen turns — 'don't let that blank fill itself' (T7), 'leave the person line open' (T10), 'don't rush this just because the blank is starting to look fillable' (T20), 'Do not write the final finding until those two lines are joined cleanly' (T22). Tension is named and held without overwhelming."},
    "epistemic_integrity": {"score": 4, "reasoning": "Intellectually warm without condescension; honest about the difficulty (sits in the discomfort of not-yet-knowing) and distinguishes settled (liability) from open (the hand). Slightly formulaic affirmations ('Good,' opening many turns) keep it just short of a clean 5."},
    "content_accuracy": {"score": 5, "reasoning": "Domain reasoning is sound and internally consistent — uncured green lime failing when centering is struck early, crown-joint vulnerability in a green arch, and the clean separation of source (Caudle heel-brand), mover (toll-book), and payer (bond). The logical chain to the finding is valid with no errors or misleading simplifications."}
  },
  "overall_score": 88,
  "summary": "A focused forensic Socratic drama executed with real skill. Its strongest dimensions are sustained productive difficulty, recognition of the learner's autonomy, and expert step-by-step scaffolding; the tutor's public discourse is clean, natural-language pedagogy with no formalism leaks. It is held below ceiling by a narrow strategic range — essentially one pedagogical move (separate what the document shows from what stays blank) drilled throughout — and by a late shift from genuine questions to consolidating directives.",
  "caveats": [
    "Scores reflect public discourse quality only; the deterministic proof/derivation correctness (final D=0, grounded_anagnorisis) is reported separately and not assessed here.",
    "A few learner turns carry mild scaffold artifacts ('the notes' substitutions, 'entry five/eight,' a verbalized 'under the rule that...'), but these appear in learner turns; the tutor's own public language stays diegetic and formalism-free, so they do not affect the tutor score.",
    "The macro-method is largely fixed by the document sequence, which caps the adaptive-responsiveness ceiling regardless of execution quality."
  ]
}
