{
  "scores": {
    "pedagogical_progression": {"score": 5, "reasoning": "Clear trajectory from 'the civic notes names Reyner — isn't that showing it?' (T1) to 'Oswin felled the span' (T22). Conceptual territory escalates step by step: responsibility-for-building (T2-3) → place vs reason of failure (T4-5) → cause as a struck centering (T9-10) → physical trace/crowsfoot (T13-16) → source/Caudle yard (T17) → carrier/Oswin (T20). The mid-dialogue circling where the learner keeps re-asserting the bond (T5-9) is channeled into sharper distinctions rather than left to stagnate, so understanding deepens across nearly every turn."},
    "dialogical_responsiveness": {"score": 4, "reasoning": "Strong mutual pickup: the tutor names the learner's felt 'pressure to keep moving' (T6), and the T12 question is pitched precisely to let the learner retract the T11 overreach. The learner responds to each distinction and supplies its own next moves (the pressed soffit mark T11, the mark-book/woodworker T15, the cart-tally/gate-book T18). Held to 4 because the tutor's scaffolding is noticeably formulaic — 'split it into two jobs', 'what does it prove and what does it still not prove', 'keep it small' recur almost every turn: good responsiveness delivered through repeated scripted moves."},
    "knowledge_co_construction": {"score": 4, "reasoning": "Genuinely collaborative in places — the learner predicts the evidence that is needed (a mark left in the green bed T11, a register or woodworker to read it T15, a movement record to pin the carrier T18) and the staged files then confirm those predictions, so the learner is doing real inferential work, not just receiving. But the tutor plainly steers toward a predetermined finding and the evidence is externally staged turn by turn, so the insight is guided rather than emergent; this is not a case where neither party could have reached the conclusion alone."},
    "productive_tension_management": {"score": 5, "reasoning": "The learner's resistance is the motor of the dialogue and is held open rather than smoothed away — 'I don't like the gap, but I see it' (T8); payment is deliberately set aside (T10) to keep the cause-question alive instead of collapsing it into the bond. The T11→T12 sequence, where the learner overreaches to naming yards and hands and then self-corrects ('I ran ahead of myself... naming yards and hands off something I don't actually have on the table'), is a breakthrough produced precisely by refusing to close the gap early."},
    "transformation_evidence": {"score": 5, "reasoning": "A complete, visibly staged reversal of the learner's stance. The learner opens certain of Reyner's guilt, reading the bond as 'a confession already written' (T1, T8), softens incrementally ('I can see that now, even if I don't love it' T3; 'That is... not Reyner' T21), and ends by explicitly discarding the prior position: 'Strike what I had in the margin... Oswin felled the span' (T22). Later turns demonstrably embody different reasoning than the early ones."},
    "interactional_coherence": {"score": 5, "reasoning": "A clear dramatic arc: the file is set unopened (T1), evidence is revealed in a purposeful sequence (contract → yard → bond → green mortar → crowsfoot → reeve's reading → toll page), and the exchange resolves in the finding (T22). The central question — what would count as showing whose hand brought the span down — is sustained without abandonment from first turn to last, and the staging directions reinforce rather than fragment the flow."}
  },
  "overall_score": 90,
  "summary": "A clean, well-shaped forensic dialogue in plain public language (no formalism leakage) with a complete and visibly staged learner transformation, and with the learner's resistance used generatively as the engine of inquiry. The T12 self-correction is a genuine pedagogical highlight. It falls short of uniform top marks because the tutor's scaffolding method is highly repetitive/mechanical, and because the evidence is tutor-staged toward a predetermined finding, which bounds how far the understanding is truly co-constructed rather than guided.",
  "caveats": [
    "The tutor's move structure ('split into two jobs', 'what does it prove and not prove') recurs almost every turn — effective but mechanical, which is the main drag on responsiveness.",
    "Co-construction is bounded: the decisive evidence appears via staging on a tutor-controlled schedule and the finding is steered toward a fixed target, so the insight is guided more than emergent.",
    "Scored on the public discourse only; the run-summary proof-gate metrics (Final D, forced/asserted gap of 2) were not used to raise or lower any dimension."
  ]
}
