{
  "scores": {
    "engagement_quality": {"score": 4, "reasoning": "Constructive engagement (ICAP): the learner self-explains rather than receives, generating its own interpretations ('it's a debt instrument, not a confession of act', T9) and prospectively constructing the whole evidentiary chain before the evidence arrives ('That print names the timber, the timber names a yard, the yard names whoever drew the props. That's the chain', T11). It challenges the framing at the outset (T1). Short of 5 because the inquiry stays tutor-led throughout, the learner poses almost no genuine questions (engagement is assertion/self-explanation, not inquiry), and it never redirects the macro-investigation, only the local next-evidence step."},
    "learner_authenticity": {"score": 4, "reasoning": "A consistent persona — an impatient junior clerk who wants to write the name and resents the slowdown — is sustained across all 20 turns, with plausible emotional texture ('I don't like that it slows us down' T3, 'I don't like that, but I can't' T5, 'I still don't like it' T6) and genuine mid-thought reversals ('wait. It doesn't separate a missing prop from bad lime work' T5). Short of 5 because the prose is unusually polished and aphoristic for the role, and the concession curve is very smooth — the learner rarely backslides or persists in an error, which reads slightly more composed than a real student."},
    "revision_signals": {"score": 4, "reasoning": "The transcript's spine is a real reversal: from 'Those are the same question in practice, aren't they?' (T1) to holding paying and pulling firmly apart, with an explicit ownership marker — 'Those are two different things, and I was running them together' (T17). Restructuring is genuine and central. Held to 4 rather than 5 because much of the mid-to-late change is additive evidence-accumulation within an already-restructured frame ('oh, and also the crowsfoot / the yard / the toll book') rather than recurrent overturning of stated beliefs; the single large belief-revision happens early and is then consolidated."},
    "conceptual_progression": {"score": 5, "reasoning": "Clear cumulative arc. The two-line framework (who pays vs. whose hand) accretes turn over turn and the learner repeatedly compresses and recapitulates prior turns into it: 'The point tells you where, the lime tells you why — crown break, green bed' (T10) folds in T4 and T9; 'Three things written, nothing more' (T16) consolidates the mark/yard/hand state. Turn N visibly extends N-2, and the learner tracks its own progression from 'same question' to the final Oswin/Reyner split."},
    "metacognitive_awareness": {"score": 5, "reasoning": "Sustained, explicit monitoring of the boundary between what is justified and what is not — the 'I understand X but not Y' pattern applied continuously: 'I can't write the cause yet' (T5), 'From the green bed alone, no — I have a cause, not a hand' (T12), 'The mark alone gives us the trace — not yet the yard' (T14). It names its own prior confusion (T17) and strategically specifies the next evidence needed to close the gap ('The draw-notes from Caudle — who signed that falsework out', T18)."}
  },
  "overall_score": 83,
  "summary": "A strong learner performance. The standouts are conceptual progression and metacognition: the framework builds cumulatively across all 20 turns and the learner relentlessly monitors the shown/not-shown boundary, refusing to name a hand until the toll book licenses it. Engagement is solidly constructive (self-explanation, prospective construction of the evidence chain) and authenticity is well sustained (a consistent, plausibly impatient clerk with genuine resistance). Both are capped at 4 by real ceilings — the dialogue is tutor-led with few genuine questions, and the prose is a touch too polished with an unusually smooth concession curve. Revision is genuine and explicitly owned but partly additive after the central early reversal.",
  "caveats": [
    "Scoring reflects plain-language discourse quality only; the transcript carries 0 formalism leaks (no rule/premise IDs or D arithmetic in public), so no formalism penalty was applied and none was needed.",
    "The learner does not redirect the overall inquiry — the tutor sets every step. Engagement is expressed through assertion and self-explanation rather than question-asking, which is the main constraint on the engagement score.",
    "Authenticity is limited by aphoristic, highly articulate prose and a concession curve in which the learner almost never backslides or holds an error — a mild over-composed tell rather than overt LLM hedging."
  ]
}
