What is Dew?

Moisture collected from the atmosphere by the action of cold. During the day, the powerful heat of the sun causes to arise from the earth and water a moist vapor, which, after the sun sinks below the horizon, is condensed by the cold, and falls in the form of dew. Dews are more copious in the Spring and Autumn than at any other season; in warm countries than in cold ones: because of the sudden changes of temperature. Egypt abounds in dews all the summer; for the air being too hot to condense the vapors in the day-time, they never gather into clouds and form rain.

What are its uses?

It cools and refreshes the vegetable creation, and prevents it from being destroyed by the heat of the sun. All hot countries where there is little or no rain are therefore blessed with this provision by the all-bountiful Creator, to render them luxuriant and inhabitable; and the dews which fall are so copious, that the earth is as deeply soaked with them during the night as if a heavy rain had fallen. For this reason also it is, that we so often read in the Bible of the "dew of Heaven" being promised to the Israelites as a signal favor.

From what does the vapor originate?

Vapor is water, combined with a still greater quantity of caloric,--that is, an imponderable and subtile form of matter, which causes the sensation of heat; and which, driving asunder the particles of the water, renders it aeriform.

What is Water?

The fluid which covers more than three-fifths of the surface of our globe, and which is necessary for the life and health of the animal and vegetable creation; for without water there would be neither rain nor dew, and everything would perish. It is likewise a necessary beverage for man and the inferior animals.

What are the properties of water?

It has no color, taste, or smell; it is heavier than air, but lighter than most solid bodies; it is capable of dissolving many substances; it changes its form by heat and cold; it always finds its own level; it supports bodies specifically lighter than itself.

What is Rain?

Water which has been raised in the form of vapor by the heat of the sun, and collected into clouds, which, becoming too heavy to remain suspended in the air, fall in drops. This process is necessary to preserve the moisture of the earth, and to supply springs, rivers, and lakes.

What is Snow?

Frozen vapor, or water congealed while falling from the clouds in flakes, by passing through a stratum of cold air below the region of the clouds.

What is Ice?

Water congealed or frozen by intense cold. Water begins to freeze at thirty-two degrees of Fahrenheit's thermometer. The water of rivers and lakes, exposed to the cold atmosphere, becomes ice during winter; but the sea very rarely freezes, owing to the salt it contains.
