{
  "scores": {
    "engagement_quality": {"score": 4, "reasoning": "The learner generates its own hypotheses ahead of the evidence — at Turn 5 it predicts that a prop against green lime 'would leave a mark in the soft mortar at the crown,' anticipating the crowsfoot revealed at Turn 13, and at Turn 12 it builds the chain pulled-prop → mark → timber → yard before the photo sheet arrives. It asks penetrating questions ('What does separating cause from liability actually change for the notes?', T3) and self-explains throughout. Constructive, but the inquiry stays tutor-scaffolded ('keep the next step small') rather than learner-redirected, so short of fully interactive."},
    "learner_authenticity": {"score": 4, "reasoning": "The assize-clerk persona is consistent and the early resistance is motivated — 'the assize doesn't read two lines — it reads one finding' (T3) is genuine in-character friction, and the mid-thought 'Wait.' realizations (T5, T9) read as real catches. But the uniform eloquence, a formulaic 'concede X, hold the open line Y' structure recurring most turns, and the repeated 'Reyner's bond still runs' refrain are mild LLM-ish tells that keep it short of a fully unpredictable real-student texture."},
    "revision_signals": {"score": 4, "reasoning": "Two load-bearing explicit revisions: dropping bad-building as the cause once the mortar is found green ('that takes bad building out of the cause box,' T9-10) and disavowing its own initial conflation ('The draft had them as the same question. They're not,' T11). Both restructure rather than merely add. Tempered because Turns 13-20 are largely additive evidence-logging (crowsfoot → Caudle → Oswin) rather than further belief-revision."},
    "conceptual_progression": {"score": 5, "reasoning": "A clear cumulative arc. The Turn-5 prop-mark prediction is referenced and paid off at Turns 12-13; the running finding 'the span came down through its centering being struck, not through any fault in how the stone was laid' is restated and extended across T12-16; and the learner tracks its own evidentiary state ('I can put the yard down as fixed; the hand stays open until the next file,' T19). Ideas build on each other and the learner monitors the developing framework."},
    "metacognitive_awareness": {"score": 4, "reasoning": "Explicit early self-monitoring of confusion — 'I'm not sure what separates demand for responsibility from shown cause' (T1), 'I'm not sure why I need a separate cause' (T2) — acted on by asking what the distinction changes (T3). Later turns systematically mark the boundary of known vs unknown ('What stays blank is which yard,' T14; 'source shown, movement not shown,' T19), though that later bookkeeping monitors the case's evidentiary state more than the learner's own comprehension."}
  },
  "overall_score": 80,
  "summary": "A high-quality resistant-learner derivation transcript whose standout is cumulative conceptual progression: a clean where → why-not → why → which-props → which-yard → which-hand arc, with the learner tracking its own state and paying off a self-generated Turn-5 prediction. Engagement is constructive (own hypotheses, penetrating questions) but stays inside tight tutor scaffolding; authenticity is consistent and motivated but slightly over-polished and formulaic; revision and metacognition are explicit at the two pivotal turns (cause/liability split, green-lime reversal) but thin into evidence-bookkeeping in the back half. Reasoning is carried entirely in natural, in-world language with no public formalism leaks, which is exactly what this rubric rewards. Weighted overall 80/100.",
  "caveats": [
    "The richest dimensions concentrate around the cause/liability split and the green-lime reversal; Turns 13-20 are largely additive evidence-accumulation, which inflates the felt richness without adding new belief-revision.",
    "Authenticity is the most contestable score — a stricter judge could read the uniform eloquence, the 'concede-but-hold' template, and the recurring 'Reyner's bond still runs' refrain as LLM performance and assign 3.",
    "Scored on public conduct only; the separately-reported deterministic gate (grounded_anagnorisis, D=0, 0 leaks) was not used to inflate these discourse-quality scores."
  ]
}
