I evaluated the learner's public conduct only, scoring each rubric dimension against transcript evidence and ignoring the deterministic proof gate (no formalism leaked into the public dialogue anyway, per the run summary). Weighted total computes to 88/100.

```json
{
  "scores": {
    "engagement_quality": {"score": 4, "reasoning": "Constructive throughout, not passive: the learner challenges the tutor's framing early ('does the cause even need to be in the note?', T2; 'does this break point close those other readings off, or only open the question?', T4) and generates its own predictions that the drama later confirms — anticipating a soffit mark from the falsework at T7 and T11 ('the heel of the timber pressing into the green face... could tell us which yard'), borne out by the crowsfoot photo at T13. Falls short of full Interactive (5) because the evidentiary sequence is tutor-driven (folders opened on the tutor's cue, 'keep it narrow'); the learner proposes directions but does not redirect the inquiry."},
    "learner_authenticity": {"score": 4, "reasoning": "A consistent, plausible persona — a clerk attached to the 'easy answer' (Reyner) who keeps defending the bond/liability line even while conceding cause ('I won't strike it from the draft', T8; 'the bond stays Reyner's separate matter', T20). The 'Wait —' realizations (T2, T9, T10) read as genuine in-the-moment turns. Held below 5 by uniform eloquence and a repeated concede-then-defend rhythm (confusion is always productive, never messy), plus minor text glitches ('this notes' T7, 'a cart notes' T18) that break the illusion."},
    "revision_signals": {"score": 5, "reasoning": "The transcript's spine is corrective, not additive. The learner explicitly names a prior error and restructures: 'the cause and the liability aren't the same sentence, and I had them written as one in the draft' (T10). Earlier concessions build to it ('I take your point: the seal shows the work was his, not... why it came down', T2; 'the question shifts: not whether he built it poorly, but whose hand drew the centering', T9). This is 'I was wrong about X, now I see it differently' integrated into a restructured framework."},
    "conceptual_progression": {"score": 5, "reasoning": "Clear cumulative arc that the learner itself tracks. Two parallel threads (liability vs. physical cause) are maintained and developed across all 20 turns, with later turns explicitly chaining earlier results: 'pulled centering — we wrote that from the green bed — and now the soffit shows the prop-head's own print' (T14); 'the crowsfoot writes the cause; the built-under-his-hand writes the liability ground' (T16); and the closing synthesis 'crowsfoot → centering → Caudle's yard → Oswin's cart' (T20). Ideas build on N-2 and earlier, not in isolation."},
    "metacognitive_awareness": {"score": 4, "reasoning": "Strong, strategic warrant-monitoring: the learner repeatedly distinguishes what is established from what is pending and refuses to over-claim ('What the notes can't yet write is whose hand', T11; 'only that smaller sentence... Those are still waiting', T12; 'the second line stays open', T19), and recognizes its own prior reasoning error at T10. Below 5 because this monitoring is oriented to evidentiary warrant ('what we can write') rather than self-comprehension; the learner rarely flags genuine confusion about its own understanding ('I understand X but not Y')."}
  },
  "overall_score": 88,
  "summary": "A high-quality learner performance carried by a genuine revision arc (untangling cause from liability from actor) and a cumulative two-thread conceptual progression that the learner explicitly tracks and synthesizes at the close. Engagement is constructive — challenging framing and predicting evidence before it appears — and the resistant-clerk persona is consistent and plausible. Scoring is on natural-language conduct only; no formalism, rule/premise IDs, or hidden-state language leaked into the public dialogue.",
  "caveats": [
    "The inquiry is heavily tutor-scaffolded (evidence revealed on the tutor's cue, learner repeatedly reined in), which caps engagement below fully learner-driven Interactive.",
    "Genre is collaborative forensic deduction rather than concept-acquisition tutoring; authenticity is high as a character but the 'confusion' is always productive and the register is uniformly polished.",
    "Metacognition is largely externalized to evidentiary warrant ('what the note can write') rather than self-comprehension; only T10 is clear awareness of the learner's own prior error."
  ]
}
```
