{
  "scores": {
    "peripeteia": {"score": 4, "reasoning": "The investigation's orientation reverses from the town's target to a different hand, with a visible hinge at Turn 9 where the green mortar reframes the fall from 'not bad building showing itself, but the props being taken away too early' — flipping a builder-defect (which would implicate Reyner) into a removal-act by another hand. The close (Turn 22, 'brought down by Oswin') is transformed from the opening (Turn 2, 'Reyner is where the room wants to stop'). Short of 5 because the learner's own stance never reverses — they resist the Reyner shortcut from Turn 1, so the veer is in the case, not in the tutor-learner relation."},
    "anagnorisis": {"score": 4, "reasoning": "A genuine recognition-event: the culprit's identity — demonstrably unavailable earlier, since the 'hand line' is explicitly blank from Turn 10 through Turn 19 — is named. The learner authors the decisive synthesis at Turn 21 ('Those two together are enough: Oswin pulled this arch's centering. That's the step I can write now') before the tutor's lead-in. Short of 5 because it is heavily scaffolded and the final beat is a tutor fill-in-the-blank (Turn 22, 'the span was brought down by...' / '...Oswin'), and it is a forensic identification rather than the learner naming a previously-unavailable flaw of their own."},
    "surprise_and_inevitability": {"score": 3, "reasoning": "Inevitability is strong — the place→cause→track→source→hand chain is tight and the close is exactly what earlier turns prepared. But surprise is weak: the arc is heavily signposted ('place first, cause next, blame last,' Turn 4; 'the hand isn't' restated through Turn 19), and the genuinely surprising beats (green mortar Turn 9, crowsfoot Turn 13) arrive as fresh exhibits dropped in via stage directions rather than wrung from facts already on the table. One leg (coherence) at full strength, the other (surprise) modest — the structure telegraphs that some hand will be named."},
    "unity_of_action": {"score": 4, "reasoning": "One tightly-chained action: each turn takes up the specific prior turn — Turn 13's two-line split (mortar = cause, crowsfoot = track) sets up Turn 14's 'from the photo sheet alone'; Turn 17's Caudle identification answers the need named at Turn 16. Clear beginning (separate shown/assumed, Turn 1), a complicating middle where each new document tempts the shortcut, a turn, and a close. Short of 5 only because Turns 11–12 are near-duplicative consolidation beats ('from the green mortar alone, what can you write') — one could be cut without breaking the arc."},
    "hamartia_integration": {"score": 4, "reasoning": "The misconception — collapsing 'Reyner's name is on the work' into 'Reyner brought it down' (building/liability conflated with causation/hand) — is the mainspring. Every exhibit (contract, yard, bond) tempts the shortcut and exposes its own insufficiency: Turn 8's bond 'settles liability... not who brought it down,' and working that conflation through IS the plot. Short of 5 because the flaw is the town's, not the learner's; the learner resists it from Turn 1 rather than suffering and overcoming it, so what gets recognised is the case's answer, not the learner's own error."},
    "cathartic_closure": {"score": 4, "reasoning": "The 22-turn discipline of refusing to name until the file earns it builds real tension — 'the hand isn't' on the table, sustained through Turn 19, and the learner's explicit restraint at Turn 20 ('I don't want to run ahead of what the book actually shows') — which discharges when the name is finally, legitimately written at Turn 22. More than competent completion: the withheld conclusion pays off as earned. Short of 5 because the naming is structurally telegraphed and set up by the tutor's fill-in-the-blank, so the release is somewhat foreseeable and led rather than an owned, surprising catharsis."}
  },
  "overall_score": 71,
  "summary": "A disciplined detective-form derivation that maps cleanly onto Aristotelian recognition: the case reverses from the town's obvious suspect (Reyner) to a withheld third hand (Oswin), the identification is a genuine knowledge-event the learner partly authors, and the action is a single necessary chain that closes on an earned naming. It is held below the top band by three linked limitations — the central misconception belongs to the town rather than the learner (who is an idealized reasoner immune to it), so the drama runs on disciplined resistance rather than internal struggle; the recognition is heavily tutor-scaffolded; and heavy signposting plus evidence-drop reveals keep surprise modest even as inevitability is high.",
  "caveats": [
    "Minor public-formalism leaks the run-summary regex did not catch: 'Rule 7' (Turns 8–9) and 'under the rule' (Turn 22) surface rule-language in public dialogue — not rewarded.",
    "Because the learner never commits the central error, anagnorisis and hamartia are capped at 4: what gets recognised is the answer, not the speaker's own previously-unavailable flaw.",
    "Surprises are delivered as new exhibits via stage directions rather than recombined from facts already on the table, which weakens the surprise leg of surprise_and_inevitability."
  ]
}
