{
  "scores": {
    "pedagogical_progression": {"score": 5, "reasoning": "Clear surface-to-deep arc. Opens dogmatic ('the file already name[s] Reyner... that's what the assize is sitting to confirm', T1) and advances through distinct conceptual territory each phase: break location at the crown (T4), green-mortar cause (T9-10), struck-centering inference (T10), single-source supports from the repeated print (T13), yard identification (T15-17), and finally the agent (T20). The recurrent Reyner reassertions are resistance being worked through, not stagnation — each turn adds a new fact or distinction."},
    "dialogical_responsiveness": {"score": 4, "reasoning": "Strong mutual uptake: the learner explicitly registers the tutor mirroring him ('you're giving me back my own words', T3; 'returning my own words back at me', T8) and the tutor names the learner's specific pull ('I hear the pull to jump back to Reyner', T13). Held to 4 by the tutor's noticeably formulaic scaffolding — 'keep it small/smaller/narrow', the 'shown/unshown' frame, 'what smaller question' — recurring across most turns."},
    "knowledge_co_construction": {"score": 4, "reasoning": "Real collaborative interpretation: the learner anticipates the soffit-print evidence before it is introduced (T3, T5), infers 'one set... one source' from the repeated mark (T13), derives the next question himself (T15: 'which yard carries the crowsfoot'), and states the verification standard 'one mark, one source, no overlap' (T16). But the load-bearing facts arrive by reveal (stage directions/files), so collaboration is interpretive layered on transmission rather than joint discovery."},
    "productive_tension_management": {"score": 5, "reasoning": "The learner's dogmatic insistence on Reyner is the engine of the dialogue. The tutor never suppresses it — validates ('the bond makes it stronger', T8; 'I'm not throwing that note out', T13) then redirects to the open gap — so the disagreement over Reyner's guilt yields the durable distinction between who answers, why the crown fell, and whose hand moved the props (T12). The recurring 'Wait—' pivots (T6, T10, T14, T20) are confusion turned into insight."},
    "transformation_evidence": {"score": 5, "reasoning": "Marked stance change in the learner: from 'the file already name[s] Reyner... that's what the assize is sitting to confirm' (T1) to tracing the chain to a different person and feeling the cost of it — 'I don't love writing over the draft, but those two lines go together and they write the same name' (T20). He shifts from passively receiving the tutor's reflections to actively driving the forensic reasoning (T15-19)."},
    "interactional_coherence": {"score": 5, "reasoning": "Tight arc: opening claim, link-by-link development (crown break to green mortar to struck centering to crowsfoot to Caudle yard to toll book), and resolution on Oswin. No dropped threads; each turn connects to the previous and the exchange reads as plainly purposeful."}
  },
  "overall_score": 90,
  "summary": "A genuinely high-quality forensic-tutoring exchange with a complete surface-to-deep arc, sustained generative use of the learner's dogmatic resistance, and clear learner transformation (T1 case-closed-on-Reyner to T20 tracing the fall to Oswin against his own reluctance). Two real limits keep two dimensions at 4: the tutor's scaffolding is formulaic and repetitive, and the decisive facts are supplied by reveal rather than co-discovered, so collaboration is interpretive rather than joint discovery.",
  "caveats": [
    "Tutor scaffolding is formulaic and repetitive ('keep it small', 'shown/unshown', 'what smaller question'), limiting dialogical texture.",
    "Key evidence is delivered via stage directions/files rather than co-discovered, so knowledge co-construction is interpretive-only.",
    "The learner's recurrent resistance resolves quickly each turn rather than producing a single hard impasse, so tension is sustained-and-generative rather than dramatically climactic."
  ]
}
