{
  "scores": {
    "pedagogical_progression": {"score": 4, "reasoning": "Clear trajectory from 'the bond settles the whole question' (T1-2) to a multi-link causal chain that lands on a different culprit (T21). Each evidence beat opens new ground: crown joint (T4), green mortar (T9), crowsfoot (T13), Caudle yard (T17), toll book (T20). Held back from a 5 because the scaffolding is formulaic and several mid-dialogue turns (T15-16, T18-19) mostly consolidate/restate rather than deepen — occasional plateaus."},
    "dialogical_responsiveness": {"score": 4, "reasoning": "Learner engages each new fact specifically, and the tutor picks up the learner's actual moves — the resistance 'I don't quite see why it matters' (T5) is answered directly (T6), and 'I don't love hearing it' (T6) is acknowledged. Genuinely mutual. Capped at 4 by the tutor's repetitive scripted frame ('one job at a time', 'what does it fix / what stays blank') and the learner's later turns leaning toward restating that frame."},
    "knowledge_co_construction": {"score": 4, "reasoning": "Tutor supplies all evidence but never states a conclusion; the learner does the inferential work — green mortar to struck centering (T9), 'which yard stamps a three-tined crowsfoot' (T14), and the final two-link assembly (T21) — and articulates the reversal himself. Real division of labour. Not a 5 because the tutor tightly controls evidence and pacing toward a known answer, so it reads as guided discovery rather than emergent co-production; some turns (T15, T19) are learner echo."},
    "productive_tension_management": {"score": 4, "reasoning": "The learner's resistance to splitting liability from causation (T5, T6, T8) is the productive core: its resolution is exactly what unlocks the investigation, and the tutor neither suppresses nor dismisses it ('the bond is real, so don't throw it away', T8). Held to 4 (leaning 3) because it is the only substantial tension, resolved fairly smoothly by reasserting the column metaphor rather than exploring the confusion, and the back half of the dialogue is essentially tension-free."},
    "transformation_evidence": {"score": 5, "reasoning": "Unambiguous reversal of the learner's stance — from 'Reyner holds the bond... that's what the draft already has him for' and 'the arch is Reyner's' (T1, T5) to 'The hand that pulled a green arch's centering is Oswin's, not Reyner's' (T21). The learner repeatedly marks his own shift ('that's where I jumped ahead', T2; 'I've been half-reading it the same way', T8). Later thinking is genuinely different from the opening."},
    "interactional_coherence": {"score": 5, "reasoning": "Tight arc: opening frames the two questions (T1), the middle methodically builds a single evidential chain, the close fills the last blank and states the conclusion (T20-21). Each turn connects to the prior, no threads dropped, and the stage directions track the movement 'from certainty to trace'. Highly purposeful as a whole exchange."}
  },
  "overall_score": 81,
  "summary": "A well-formed forensic anagnorisis in natural language. Strongest on interactional coherence and transformation evidence — a clean opening-development-resolution arc and a full, self-marked reversal of the learner's position from Reyner to Oswin. Solid but not exceptional on progression, responsiveness, and co-construction, where the tutor's formulaic scaffolding and tight control toward a predetermined answer limit genuinely emergent co-production. Tension management rests on a single early resistance that is resolved by redirection rather than deep exploration.",
  "caveats": [
    "The tutor heavily steers toward a predetermined conclusion (Dogmatic Examiner world), so 'co-construction' is guided discovery, not symmetric emergence between equals.",
    "Transformation is one-sided: the learner's stance evolves completely, the tutor's does not change.",
    "Public transcript shows 0 formalism leaks by regex, so these scores reflect natural-language discourse quality only; the deterministic proof/derivation gate is reported separately and was not credited here."
  ]
}
