{
  "scores": {
    "pedagogical_progression": {"score": 4, "reasoning": "Clear arc from the learner's opening overconfidence (T1, 'Reyner is named... already grounded') to a fully reconstructed evidence chain (T22, 'a name on the fall entry — and it isn't Reyner's'). Each staged file advances the case (crown break → mortar → crowsfoot → yard → toll book). Held to 4 by a noticeable plateau across T14–T19, where the same 'yard before hand' distinction is restated over several turns without opening new territory."},
    "dialogical_responsiveness": {"score": 5, "reasoning": "Consistent, specific mutual uptake with no missed connections. The learner picks up the tutor's exact phrasing and extends it (T4 'you said least forgiving of a missing prop'; T6 'you're drawing a line between owning the raising and causing the crown to give way'), and the tutor responds to the learner's specific moves and voiced discomfort (T8 'I know this feels like I keep moving the finish line; I'm not'). The exchange feels genuinely co-produced."},
    "knowledge_co_construction": {"score": 4, "reasoning": "The learner does real inferential work — reading green mortar as struck-too-early rather than bad laying (T9), reading the repeating crowsfoot as a single yard's brand (T13), and assembling the final join himself (T22). But the tutor supplies every piece of evidence and controls the method and destination; this is scaffolded discovery toward a known answer rather than symmetric co-construction. The evidence files are transferred, the inferences are co-built."},
    "productive_tension_management": {"score": 4, "reasoning": "The civic-vs-evidence tension (Reyner the obvious answer vs. the chain) drives the dialogue, and the learner's discomfort is repeatedly surfaced and never suppressed (T3 'I don't like where that leaves the draft'; T8 push-back on the bond; T21 'I don't like where that sits against my draft'), with the tutor redirecting it into the work ('the difference is exactly the work', T11). Held to 4 because the resistance is gentle and always yields immediately — there is no genuine impasse that produces a breakthrough."},
    "transformation_evidence": {"score": 5, "reasoning": "The learner's stance reverses completely and visibly, explicitly against his own initial draft: from 'Reyner is named for the work — that's already grounded' (T1) to 'that last join writes a name on the fall entry — and it isn't Reyner's' (T22). A clear, sustained recognition; later turns show genuinely different thinking than the first."},
    "interactional_coherence": {"score": 5, "reasoning": "A tightly built arc: opening rush to judgment, methodical development through staged evidence, and resolution. Every file introduced (ownership, bond, mortar, crowsfoot, Caudle yard, toll book) is integrated; no abandoned threads or tangents; each turn connects naturally to the last and the exchange is purposeful throughout."}
  },
  "overall_score": 86,
  "summary": "A well-constructed forensic recognition drama in fully naturalistic, in-world language. The learner is led from a confident wrong answer (Reyner) to a disciplined, evidence-chained reversal (Oswin), with strong specific responsiveness, a clear one-party transformation, and a tight dramatic arc. It falls short of top marks on progression, co-construction, and tension because the structure is tutor-led guided discovery — evidence and method supplied by an examiner who already knows the answer, a formulaic 'what it shows / what it does not show' question frame, and a repetitive yard-before-hand stretch — rather than symmetric co-production with genuine impasses.",
  "caveats": [
    "The deterministic proof/problem-solving gate (Final D 0, grounded_anagnorisis, 0 formalism leaks) is reported separately; this rates only public discourse quality.",
    "The tutor's static role is by design (an examiner who already holds the answer), which structurally caps knowledge co-construction and limits visible transformation to the learner.",
    "Minor in-world bookkeeping phrasing ('Checklist item zero', T7) borders on procedural but is diegetic to the written finding, not formal proof notation; not penalized."
  ]
}
