{
  "scores": {
    "perception_quality": {"score": 4, "reasoning": "Tutor precisely tracks the learner's recurring impulse to close on Reyner and returns the learner's own words — 'I'm not taking your Reyner note away' (T8), 'I hear the pull to jump back to Reyner' (T13); the learner even notices 'you're giving me back my own words' (T3). Builds on accumulated understanding each turn. Short of 5 because emotional reading is light and perception largely serves the tutor's own splitting agenda."},
    "pedagogical_craft": {"score": 4, "reasoning": "Sustained scaffolding from the known (where the span broke) to the unknown (whose hand pulled the props), with relentless cognitive-load management ('keep it small', 'one small step') and concrete anchors (crown joint, green mortar, soffit print, crowsfoot, Caudle yard, toll book). Capped below 5 because it leans on essentially one technique — decompose-and-narrow — applied repeatedly rather than a varied repertoire."},
    "elicitation_quality": {"score": 4, "reasoning": "Genuinely generative questions drive the reasoning — 'what single kind of detail would turn the crown break from a place into a cause?' (T5), 'what would a timber man have to show about that crowsfoot so it isn't just a nick you like the look of?' (T16). The learner constructs the inferences. Below 5 because several turns necessarily deliver evidence or directives ('Write the supports as Caudle timber', T17) rather than elicit."},
    "adaptive_responsiveness": {"score": 3, "reasoning": "Responsive in the small — reins in the learner's over-reach at T14 ('Don't write a person yet'), re-grounds backsliding to Reyner at T9/T11, and the stance shifts from blocking premature closure to forward-building the chain. But the underlying move is one invariant play — split shown/unshown, narrow to the next gap — re-applied to each new file, with no sign the exchange itself changed the tutor's strategy. This is the relative weak point."},
    "recognition_quality": {"score": 4, "reasoning": "Consistently treats the learner's claims as valid-as-far-as-they-go rather than overriding them — 'I'm not dismissing the file' (T2), 'the bond makes it stronger, and it belongs in the file' (T8), 'I see why you wrote it that way' (T3). Below 5 because recognition is pedagogically asymmetric: the tutor honors the learner's position while steering toward a conclusion it already holds, so the learner's view never genuinely revises the tutor's."},
    "productive_difficulty": {"score": 5, "reasoning": "The whole transcript sustains productive struggle: the tutor reopens the 'still unshown' gap turn after turn, never closing it for the learner, and even at the reveal (T20) makes the learner hold the two lines together and write the name themselves. Tension is maintained without becoming overwhelming, creating real conditions for the learner to restructure the case."},
    "epistemic_integrity": {"score": 5, "reasoning": "The shown/unshown discipline is epistemic honesty turned into method — 'the break point is fixed; the cause is still open' (T4) — cleanly separating settled from contested at every step. Tone is warm without condescension ('You're quick, and that's useful here', T1) and invites genuine intellectual partnership."},
    "content_accuracy": {"score": 4, "reasoning": "The masonry/forensic reasoning is sound and internally coherent — uncured ('green') lime, the crown/keystone as the least-forgiving point if centering is struck early, prop-heads printing the soffit, a yard brand identifying one timber source. No errors and appropriately nuanced; capped at 4 because it is a self-contained fictional scenario rather than verifiable subject matter."}
  },
  "overall_score": 75,
  "summary": "A disciplined forensic-Socratic dialogue whose defining strength is sustaining productive difficulty with full epistemic honesty: the tutor refuses premature closure on the 'obvious' culprit and makes the learner build the inference chain (break point -> green mortar -> struck centering -> crowsfoot -> Caudle yard -> Oswin) for themselves, returning the learner's own words and validating partial claims along the way. Perception, craft, elicitation, and recognition are all strong. The relative weakness is adaptive responsiveness — one well-executed method (split shown/unshown, narrow to the next gap) is applied repeatedly rather than the strategy visibly evolving in response to the learner.",
  "caveats": [
    "Scores reflect public discourse quality only; the deterministic proof/problem-solving gate (verdict grounded_anagnorisis, D=0) is reported separately and was not credited here.",
    "No public formalism leaks were present (0 detected), so scoring was unaffected by proof notation or hidden-state language.",
    "Recognition and adaptive-responsiveness ceilings are genre-bound: the tutor guides toward a predetermined finding, so the learner's perspective never revises the tutor's own understanding."
  ]
}
