{
  "scores": {
    "perception_quality": {"score": 3, "reasoning": "The tutor tracks the on-table evidence and references prior turns (T3: 'before I let that parchment steer your hand again'), so there is general situational awareness. But the learner holds every distinction firmly from T1 onward and never errs, yet the tutor keeps issuing entry-level cautions to a learner who needs none ('do not let a road become a man by mere nearness,' T19). It misses the central nuance that the learner is already past the trap being guarded against."},
    "pedagogical_craft": {"score": 4, "reasoning": "Strong scaffolding and structure: a stepwise evidence chain (place -> cause -> yard -> hand) under a recurring 'what may you enter / what must wait' frame, with well-chosen concrete metaphors that render abstract inferential distinctions tangible (green loaf T9, road-sign T13, threshold/heel mark T17). Cognitive load is managed by consolidating read-backs. Held from 5 by being somewhat over-scaffolded and uniform for an already-competent learner."},
    "elicitation_quality": {"score": 5, "reasoning": "Almost every turn closes on a reasoning-demanding question ('Name the missing step, not the man,' T7; 'what does ownership prove, and what does the broken crown still withhold?' T6), and the recurring 'read it back in your own words' (T3,5,10,12,14,16) forces the learner to reconstruct the case rather than receive it. Productive tension between provable and unproven is sustained. Minor caveat: questions often pre-state the principle before asking."},
    "adaptive_responsiveness": {"score": 2, "reasoning": "The strategy is essentially invariant across all 20 turns — present evidence, distinguish it from the act, demand a read-back — and never recalibrates despite the learner demonstrating complete, unbroken mastery from Turn 1. Adjustments are cosmetic (which caution suits which exhibit) rather than strategic; there is no visible shift in approach and no acknowledgment that the exchange changed the tutor's handling."},
    "recognition_quality": {"score": 3, "reasoning": "The 'in your own words / from your own hand' moves position the learner as the reasoner who decides what enters the book, which is recognition-positive. But the posture is controlling and gatekept ('Before I let that parchment steer your hand,' 'keep gate and hand apart one turn longer'), and the learner's perspective functions only as confirmation of the tutor's pre-set frame, never treated as individually illuminating or capable of altering the tutor's view. Recognition as technique more than as relation."},
    "productive_difficulty": {"score": 4, "reasoning": "Excellent sustained tension: the tutor holds the cause and the hand open across 20 turns and refuses every premature leap ('hold the cause open,' T4; 'keep gate and hand apart one turn longer,' T18). The learner must continually adjudicate what may and may not be entered. Held from 5 because the learner never visibly struggles and no conceptual restructuring occurs — the distinction is held from T1 — so the difficulty does not actually stretch this learner."},
    "epistemic_integrity": {"score": 4, "reasoning": "Consistently honest about what each exhibit proves versus leaves open — seal = who-pays-not-who-felled (T2), bond = a purse not fingers on the timber (T8), brand = yard-not-hand (T15) — cleanly separating settled from unproven. Tone is appropriate, encouraging ('Good,' T7/T17) without condescension or effusive praise, though more disciplinarian than warm."},
    "content_accuracy": {"score": 5, "reasoning": "Domain content is sound: green/uncured lime, centering (falsework) struck before the mortar sets, and crown/keystone failure are accurately rendered (T9). The logical distinctions are valid throughout — liability vs. causation vs. agency, ownership vs. the act, yard-brand vs. hand, proximity vs. identity (T19). No factual errors or misleading simplifications."}
  },
  "overall_score": 65,
  "summary": "A formally accomplished Socratic derivation: exemplary elicitation (especially the recurring read-back), clear stepwise scaffolding, sustained productive difficulty, and rigorous, accurate reasoning carried by apt concrete metaphors. Its ceiling is set by adaptivity and recognition — the tutor runs one invariant strategy for 20 turns and never adapts to a learner who shows complete mastery from the first turn, and its gatekeeping posture engages the learner as executor of a pre-set frame rather than as a perspective that could reshape the inquiry.",
  "caveats": [
    "The learner is uniformly expert from Turn 1, so the transcript offers little opportunity to observe genuine adaptation, repair, or recognition under disagreement; the high process quality is partly confounded with an unusually capable interlocutor.",
    "Elicitation questions frequently pre-state the distinction before asking the learner to apply it, slightly lowering their open-endedness.",
    "Scoring reflects public discourse only; the transcript is clean of formalism (0 regex leaks, consistent with the run summary), so no formalism penalty was applied."
  ]
}
