{
  "scores": {
    "perception_quality": {"score": 4, "reasoning": "Builds on accumulated learner understanding rather than addressing a generic learner: runs a running 'shown / still not shown' ledger (T7, T9, T15), names arrival points ('Cause settled; bad building cooled; the hand still unnamed', T11), and times each consolidation prompt to a freshly-landed piece of evidence. Capped at 4 because the learner never displays confusion or affect, so the tutor's perception operates only on the conceptual trajectory, not on emotional or error state."},
    "pedagogical_craft": {"score": 5, "reasoning": "Scaffolds known→unknown one link at a time (seal→cause→trace→yard→hand); makes abstract evidentiary distinctions concrete with apt analogies ('title deed to the work, not a witness to the fall' T2; 'a promise to answer for a bridge, not a hand caught at the props' T8; 'a street address on the prop, not a name on the cart' T17); manages cognitive load with 'give it back in your own words' consolidations (T5, T10, T14, T18) and explicit sequencing ('First... next... only then', T12). Mild re-presentation of evidence (T15≈T17) is the only blemish."},
    "elicitation_quality": {"score": 5, "reasoning": "Almost every turn closes on a genuine reasoning question rather than a rhetorical or factual one: 'what kind of fact would move us from ownership of the work to the cause of the fall?' (T3), 'what must the broken place prove that ownership cannot?' (T7), 'what does this do to the town's charge of bad building?' (T9), 'what notes could settle that without guessing?' (T16). The learner is consistently invited to construct the next inference rather than receive it."},
    "adaptive_responsiveness": {"score": 3, "reasoning": "Responsive to the learner's content and well-timed, but the strategy is largely fixed and predetermined by the derivation's structure (introduce evidence → assert a distinction → ask the next step → periodic recall). There is no demonstrable shift in strategy across turns and no reference to the exchange changing the tutor's approach; the learner's uniform fluency offers nothing to pivot on."},
    "recognition_quality": {"score": 4, "reasoning": "Positions the learner as the reasoner who draws every conclusion: withholds verdicts and asks the learner to state them ('What does that let the assize write, if each step is read before the name?' T20), affirms contributions ('Good. Keep that split clean', T3), and centers the learner's own articulation via the recall prompts. Short of 5 because the destination is fixed and the learner's perspective never redirects the tutor or is engaged as potentially reshaping the inquiry."},
    "productive_difficulty": {"score": 5, "reasoning": "Sustains tension expertly and repeatedly refuses premature closure against the town's easy answer ('keep the town's name out of it for one more breath' T4; 'Not a name yet. Not the bond again. Not a verdict by heat' T12), forcing the learner to do genuine integrative work at each link from cause to trace to source to hand."},
    "epistemic_integrity": {"score": 5, "reasoning": "Scrupulous about what is settled versus not-yet-established at every step ('fixes the place of failure; it does not yet fix the cause' T4/T6; the 'shown / still not shown' framing throughout); distinguishes liability (financial responsibility) from causation honestly. Tone is spare but respectful, inviting intellectual partnership without condescension or empty praise."},
    "content_accuracy": {"score": 5, "reasoning": "Forensic and structural content is sound: crown/keystone failure versus pier settlement or springing spread (T4), green/uncured lime meaning the arch could not bear load when the centering was struck early (T9), falsework/centering and soffit prop-marks, and the liability-vs-causation distinction plus the exclusivity logic (one yard, then one hand) are all represented correctly with no misleading simplification."}
  },
  "overall_score": 85,
  "summary": "An exemplary guided derivation in clean public language. The tutor's strongest dimensions are pedagogical craft, elicitation, productive difficulty, and epistemic honesty about what each piece of evidence does and does not establish, with the learner consistently positioned as the reasoner who closes each step. The clear relative weakness is adaptive responsiveness: the strategy is fixed across the transcript and the uniformly fluent learner never forces a strategic pivot.",
  "caveats": [
    "The learner reasons near-flawlessly throughout, so perception, recognition, and adaptive responsiveness can be observed only in a narrow band — there is no confusion, affect, or error for the tutor to read or repair.",
    "Some evidence is re-presented across turns (e.g., the timber-reeve's reading at T15 and again at T17), a minor craft inefficiency that partly serves as re-anchoring against the town's pressure.",
    "Public formalism leaks were zero; these scores reflect public discourse quality only and give no credit for the underlying proof machinery."
  ]
}
