{
  "scores": {
    "pedagogical_arc": {
      "score": 4,
      "reasoning": "Coherent, cumulative forensic chain built link by link: the house-rule frame (T1) → place of failure at the crown (T4) → green-lime cause (T9) → the repeated crowsfoot mark (T13) → Caudle yard (T15) → single carter Oswin (T20). Each evidentiary layer extends the prior and the throughline — liability/ownership is not the felling hand — holds end to end. Short of masterful only because the same 'read it back in your own words' device carries six turns (T3, 5, 10, 12, 14, 16), with a near-duplicate crown-bed read-back at T10/T12 that reads as mild circling rather than fresh extension."
    },
    "adaptive_trajectory": {
      "score": 3,
      "reasoning": "The tutor's core move is near-constant — introduce evidence or request a read-back, then 'what may you enter, what must still wait, name the missing step' — essentially the same at T19 as at T7. There is genuine cumulative integration of findings (T11: 'the stone has shown why, the seal has shown who answers, neither has yet shown the hand') and a register shift from legal documents (T1–8) to the physical stone (T9–12) to chain-of-custody witnesses (T13–20), but that tracks a fixed evidentiary curriculum, not learner signals. The learner is flawless from T1 and never leaps, yet the tutor never releases the tight gate-keeping the learner has earned (still warning against leaps at T18–19); adaptation to this specific learner is minimal."
    },
    "pedagogical_closure": {
      "score": 4,
      "reasoning": "Strong consolidation: T20 prompts an ordered walk of the whole chain (green bed → crowsfoot → Caudle gate → single carter) and asks which foundational stone must still stand under the finding; the learner restates the full argument and reaches the verdict ('the assize may write Oswin'), the case closing clean. Held from a 5 because closure coincides exactly with case resolution — there is no explicit method-level takeaway or forward next step beyond the immediate verdict, and with the case solved no remaining gap is named at the end (gap-naming is pervasive earlier but not carried into a closing reflection)."
    }
  },
  "overall_score": 66,
  "summary": "A tightly coherent forensic-derivation drama in which the tutor walks the clerk through a clean evidentiary chain to a grounded verdict, consistently policing the distinction between liability/ownership and the hand that felled. Public discourse is free of formalism leaks and reads as natural dramatic dialogue. Strongest as a cumulative arc and in consolidating closure; weakest on adaptive trajectory, where the gate-keeping method is constant and curriculum-driven rather than visibly adjusted to an already-expert learner.",
  "caveats": [
    "Adaptive trajectory is borderline 2/3: the tutor's method is essentially static and the learner's demonstrated competence is never rewarded with reduced scaffolding (over-scaffolds at T18–19); scored 3 only for the genuine cumulative integration of findings and the documentary→physical→witness register shift.",
    "Scores reflect public discursive/dramatic quality only; the deterministic proof gate (final D=0, grounded_anagnorisis, 0 forced/asserted gaps) is reported separately and is not credited here.",
    "The 'read it back in your own words' device, while pedagogically motivated, recurs across six turns and slightly limits the arc score."
  ]
}
